>> [BACKGROUND MUSIC] And
I think many people today
don't know what to
believe anymore.
>> People are basically going
to keep on to help uncover what
really happened.
>> I felt like something
was watching me.
>> We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told
the entire story.
>> NARRATOR: And now, the host
of the nationally syndicated
"Coast to Coast AM" and Gaiam
TV bring you "Beyond Belief"
with George Noory.
>> GEORGE NOORY: You know, all
of us at one time in our lives
will be confronted with
that horrible word, death.
Whether it's a friend, a family
member, another loved one,
it's going to happen eventually.
Our special guest tonight
on "Beyond Belief"
is somebody who has
incredible experience,
not only on this side,
but on the other side.
He's a medium.
He talks to the dead,
James Van Praagh.
James, come on in.
[APPLAUSE]
>> NOORY: How are you?
Good to see you.
>> JAMES VAN PRAAGH: Hi, George.
How are you?
>> NOORY: Have a seat.
Good.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Thank you.
>> NOORY: A lot of people are
beginning to realize that you
are also the Co-Executive
Producer of that long running
series, "Ghost Whisperer"
with Jennifer Love Hewitt.
>> VAN PRAAGH:
Yes, that's right.
I helped develop that
show and produce the show.
And really brought it
out to the networks.
And now it's changed
everything, as far
as ghost busting
and ghost hunting.
And put it out to
the general public.
>> NOORY: James, what is
the fascination with death,
with the other side?
>> VAN PRAAGH: Well, I think,
George, that everybody,
as human beings, we share
two common experiences.
And one is birth.
And we've been
through that, so we
know a little bit about that.
But the other is death.
And we're all going to go
through that experience.
So everybody wants to
know what is that like.
>> NOORY: Is there any
way we can bypass that?
>> VAN PRAAGH: No.
It's part of life.
>> NOORY: It's going to happen.
>> VAN PRAAGH: And it's a
painless type of experience.
There's nothing
painful about it.
Leading up to death
may by painful.
The type of death you have is a
terminal illness, or something,
it could be painful.
But when the spirit actually
leaves the physical body,
there is no pain.
>> NOORY: A couple weeks ago, I
was watching old videos of "The
Rat Pack."
And there they all were,
Sammy Davis Jr, Frank Sinatra,
Dean Martin, Joey Bishop.
They were all there.
And it struck me that
they're all gone now.
That they were all dead.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Well, I've
brought two of them through.
>> NOORY: And it happens.
I mean, so there's
no escaping this.
>> VAN PRAAGH: No, it's
a natural part of life.
We've done it many,
many, many, many times.
I do believe in reincarnation.
And I think we've
done it thousands
and thousands and
thousands of times.
>> NOORY: Was it here long
before the physical realm?
>> VAN PRAAGH: Yes.
Death, you know,
everything dies every day.
We have cells that
die every day.
It's just part of life.
And we make it such a big
thing, but it really isn't.
It's just a very
natural occurrence.
>> NOORY: How did this
all happen for you?
How did James Van Praagh get
interested in the other side,
and become a medium?
It kind of picked me, George.
I didn't pick it.
I really didn't pick it.
I was very reluctant.
As a little boy, I used to
see spirits all the time,
just like in the movie
"The Sixth Sense."
And that was really
my childhood.
And my mother was
also very mediumistic.
And one day I aksed
her, I said, who
are those people
at the end of bed?
And she said, oh,
those are God's angels.
You see them too?
And I said, yes.
>> NOORY: So she encouraged it?
>> VAN PRAAGH: She did.
Because she had the same
experiences as a young girl,
herself.
So there was no
negativity, no fear at all.
And she just said, just open up.
You're very protected.
It's God's work, she would say.
And I've always believed that.
And I always felt such
a great connection,
as far as when they came
through, when I would see them.
There was this overwhelming
sense of love, of love.
It goes beyond the word love.
This is energy, this feeling.
And I knew it was right.
And I knew that that's what
everything was made of.
>> NOORY: I'm sure you've
seen the movie "Ghost"
with Whoopi Goldberg, right?
>> VAN PRAAGH: Yes, I stood
up and gave a standing ovation
in the audience.
>> NOORY: Does
that happen to you?
Do you sit there and have some
entity jump into your body?
>> VAN PRAAGH: Not quite
as dramatic as that.
But very similar, very similar.
When I work, I ask the spirit
world, who are right around us,
all around us, because
the spirit world really
inter-penetrates this dimension,
so they're right here with us.
But as a medium, what I do is,
I ask them to blend with me.
To come closer to my mind.
And the mind is
part of the soul.
So it's really mind
to mind communication.
And I invite them in, to
come closer and closer,
so I start picking up
the personality traits.
And then really start
knowing things about them.
And they kind of drop into
my consciousness details
about themselves.
>> NOORY: What are
they looking for?
What do they want?
>> VAN PRAAGH: They want
their loved ones to know that
they're not dead.
That there is no
such thing as death.
That they hear every
thought of theirs.
That their prayers,
their mental thoughts,
they are very aware of them.
They're not dead.
And they're going to
be with them again
when it's their loved
one's time to pass
to the other side of life.
>> NOORY: Have you ever had
someone who passed on and he
desperately wants to tell his
wife, the money is the wall?
Do they ever say that?
>> VAN PRAAGH: I've
had experiences,
is the 30 years I've
been doing this,
I have had some experiences
where they would tell where
the insurance papers were,
or where the combination
of the safe was.
Yes.
I've had, or where
jewelry would be.
I have had that happen.
>> NOORY: To me, that would
seem very frustrating,
that people will die--
they don't expect to die--
and they just haven't completed
their business on this side.
>> VAN PRAAGH: That's right.
I wrote a book called
"Unfinished Business, or What
the Dead Teach Us
About Life." and. it's
so interesting, because
most of the readings, most
of the messages that come
through are those of regrets.
I should have, would
have, could have.
If only I knew then
what I know now,
I would have lived my
life so differently.
I would have made
the right choices.
So part of my work
is also to teach
people to live the
best life they can.
To demonstrate love
wherever they can.
Because you don't want to get to
the other side of life and have
regrets.
>> NOORY: You're not
afraid to dying, are you?
>> VAN PRAAGH: I
look forward to it.
>> NOORY: Yeah.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Yeah.
>> NOORY: Though you don't
want to leave too early, night?
>> VAN PRAAGH: No, I
have to finish my work.
I've got to finish my work here.
But I don't fear
at all, not at all.
You know, we die every
night we go to sleep.
When we have dreams,
our spirit body
is actually leaving
the physical body
and goes to the
spirit side of life.
And we're connected to what's
called the silver cord, which
is connecting the solar
plexus to the spirit body.
And in the morning, we
come back into the body.
And many people
talk about having
dreams that are
more than dreams.
They're visitations
with their loved ones.
I've seen them.
They're so real.
I wanted to be there with them.
I said, well, it's
because you are there
with them, in that dimension.
>> NOORY: What is it about the
dream state that allows that
entity, that spirit to
communicate with the person?
>> VAN PRAAGH: I think that
we, as physical beings,
are much more open.
We're not in the
rational mindset.
We're not in the critical
mind that really just breaks
everything down and
blocks everything.
We're much more open, because
it's spirit to spirit contact,
if you will.
So we're much more open.
Now it happens to
us all the time,
but we cannot always remember
the experience in the conscious
mind when we wake up.
But when we do, it's a very
real experience for people.
>> NOORY: How many people
are afraid of dying?
>> VAN PRAAGH: You know, George,
not as many as there used
to be.
So when I first started
doing this work,
about 30 years ago,
I was the weirdo.
I was on the outside.
And it's through the many,
many years, as you know this,
the consciousness has
definitely changed.
People had experiences.
Everybody can talk about
their kind of experiences,
whether it's deja vu, whether
it's a dream of a loved one
that passed over, or
they're aware of someone
that passed over
standing next to them.
We've all had those experiences.
So I think deep down, in
the core of their soul,
they recognize those
experiences as truth.
So I think many more
people are much more
accepting of this now.
And they are because
of television shows,
of course, now,
movies, and books.
Much more relatively
aware of these things now.
>> NOORY: A neurosurgeon
came down with meningitis.
And he was in a coma.
And in this coma
state, he truly felt
that he had seen the other side.
That he died.
>> VAN PRAAGH: I've
read that book, yeah.
>> NOORY: Yeah, Eben Alexander.
And he came back.
And he is now convinced
that the other side exists.
Now this is a scientist.
This is a medical doctor.
And he was so opposed to
it before this happened.
It does change your
life, it's life-altering.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Isn't that a
great example of somebody--
I mean, if you're going to
pick somebody to have that
experience--
>> NOORY: There he is
>> VAN PRAAGH: --what better
than a skeptical doctor who
works in this field,
and had the experience?
And I think, one of the people
that he saw on the other side
was a guide of his, a woman.
And she was very beautiful.
He didn't know who she was
until he got back on the Earth.
And he was adopted.
You know the story.
And then, it ended up that
that was a sister of his,
a natural sister
that died very young.
>> NOORY: It's incredible.
>> VAN PRAAGH: And they
showed him a photograph.
It was exactly the
spirit that he had seen.
Amazing story.
>> NOORY: James, a few years
ago, I had a friend of mine,
he died in a
motorcycle accident.
And it was a horrible situation.
He was speeding.
A car driven by a very
elderly person pulled out
in front of him, and he t-boned
her, and he went flying.
Landed on a stop sign, his
body, and it almost severed him,
but he died.
At the funeral, which
I don't particularly
enjoy going to,
but at the funeral
I'm looking at his body,
how empty, how cold it was.
And for one split
second, it hit me
that what if it doesn't exist?
What if the other
side is not there?
That this is it, it's all over?
And I've got to tell
you, it was probably
one of the loneliest feelings
I have ever had, ever.
Is it possible that religion
created the other side
so that we live this
life thinking, OK, it
exists on the other side?
Now you would say
otherwise, I'm sure,
because of your experience, and
your communication with those.
But I've always
thought, well, maybe
they created that-- when
I had my moment of doubt.
>> VAN PRAAGH: You
know, who knows?
Religions, I mean, I have a
whole thing about religion,
because, of course,
religion, are man-made.
And I was raised Catholic.
I just think that every
religion has bits of the truth,
but not one religion
has all the truth.
And I think that you have to
have religion for some people
to feel there's a
sense of organization,
or that they belong
to something.
But also we have to
remember that there
are many religions who really
work from fear, fear-based.
And it's through fear they
can control the masses.
I mean, if they were
to give everybody
the secrets, if you will,
the knowledge that there
is no death, there is
another side of life,
and it's just how you treat
another person, that's
all you have to do.
But there are some religions
that are very rigid
and they have to hold people
into that organization
in order to be this religion.
The religion that I follow,
because many people ask me,
is the religion of love.
And that's it.
It really is.
It's a universal energy
that we all have.
I don't believe
religions, per se,
as, you can only
see God this way.
God is a man with a white
beard and lives in a cloud.
It's just so mythological to me.
That just doesn't work for me.
It's so old fashioned.
We all, I believe, are all god.
I believe we all have
that god spark within us.
And I believe our life,
here on this earth,
is how to express that god.
And how to share that god.
And how to bring up
the consciousness,
the awareness of
god in everybody.
>> NOORY: I have a
simple formula of life.
Live for today,
die for tomorrow.
What do you think of that?
>> VAN PRAAGH: I think
that's a perfect one, George.
And that goes along
with what I have,
which is, a successful
life is when you pass away
and you look back at
your life on the earth
and you've changed someone's
life, made it successful.
That's a successful life,
when you've changed people,
you've brought up the
consciousness, if you will.
>> NOORY: And of course,
we're interactive,
here on "Beyond Belief."
Which means, those of
you in the audience,
we will take your questions
for James Van Praagh.
So just put your hands up
and we'll get right to you.
Sure, let's have one from you.
>> AUDIENCE: I would like
to know, OK, so people die.
They go to the other side.
So if I have a loved one
that went to the other side,
and I went to a reading with
you, and he didn't show up.
Could he possibly have
been reincarnated?
And would that be like
why he wouldn't show up?
Or do you know that?
>> NOORY: Yeah, where
do they go, James?
>> VAN PRAAGH: It's
a good question.
And many people
ask that question,
because it's a common question.
Because people
want to know that.
And I often say,
well, don't think
of the soul as just
this linear being
that this is just encased
in our physical body.
The soul is much,
much more than that.
So I say, think of
the soul as the sun.
And that this one physical
body is a ray of that sun.
But we're much, much
bigger and more than that.
This is just one
part of our soul.
So the personality that you
would know from the earth world
it's just one part of that soul.
And they'll be with
you when you pass over,
because we tend to come
back and group souls.
Let's come back, and not only
learn individually as groups,
but as those group
souls we evolve too.
So there's a connection.
There's a karmic
connection, if you will.
So we do it together.
So you'll always
meet up with those
loved ones who we've known
here, at the personality.
Life is the time here,
whether it's 60, 70, 80, 90
years that we live here
and then pass over.
It's very small time in
the scheme of things.
In the scheme of the soul,
it's very small, right?
It's the blink of an eye.
>> NOORY: What percent of
the people that you are with,
and I've seen you at events, and
I mean they come out in droves,
what percent can you not reach
that other person on the other
side, because maybe they
have gone somewhere?
>> VAN PRAAGH: Well, there
are many factors involved.
For instance, the person
that's receiving the reading,
maybe they're closed down.
Or maybe they're sitting
there and they're
very obsessed about hearing
one particular thing,
like a nickname.
So they close things down.
Or they want to hear
from their dead father,
but for some reason that father
might not want to communicate.
Just because we want
to hear from them,
doesn't mean that they're
willing to do this.
But a neighbor
might come through,
the animal, family dog
might come through.
So you never know
what's going to happen.
>> NOORY: Taking more of your
questions for James Van Praagh,
in the audience.
Just show your hands and
we'll get right to you.
Yes.
>> AUDIENCE: You had mentioned
something about not looking
back towards the past?
I've kind of had a rough
life the past seven years.
I'm trying to still deal with
it, emotionally and mentally.
And sometimes I don't
know how to deal
with it with the loss
of my mom and my brother
and going through a divorce.
And I have a lot of regrets.
>> VAN PRAAGH: So I would
say to you, number one,
that you're a soul having
a physical experience.
Not the other way around.
So we have to realize
from a perspective
that we, being
soul beings, we'll
come back to this Earth
as our school room.
And we go through
many, many lessons.
And so the hardest lessons
in life are grief, loss.
Loss of love, as well.
>> NOORY: Guilt.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Guilt.
Guilt.
I should have, would
have, could have's, right.
So I often tell people, live
for right in this moment now.
The past has happened.
It's already happened,
you can't change the past.
And you really can look
forward to the future,
but you have to live
for this moment now.
And I often say,
assess your life.
What has that taught
you from the past?
What lessons did it teach you?
What gifts did the dead
go and leave you behind?
Yes?
There's some wonderful gifts.
And we just have to have the
courage to open up those gifts
and see what they taught us.
How are our lives better?
And we can go on, because
we picked this, as souls.
We did.
And we're never alone.
We're never alone.
They're always with us.
I often say, they
share life with us.
They're right around
us, encouraging us,
influencing us to
do certain things.
They're helping us
as much as they can.
From this physical point
of view, we can't see them.
There's a limitation,
if you will.
But they are so, so around you.
And they're guiding you.
They're always guiding us.
>> NOORY: Can you also beat
yourself up too much, maybe,
like she is?
I've got to tell you, you
know, a year and a half
ago, James, as you
know, my father died.
>> VAN PRAAGH: I
spoke to you, I think,
two days on the
radio afterwards.
>> NOORY: That's right.
He was in Detroit, I
was in Los Angeles.
I couldn't get there in time.
For a long time, it bothered me.
I felt like, I should
have been there.
But I really believe he was at
peace, and he remembered me.
And I stopped beating
myself up over that.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Good.
Good.
Because, George, a common
experience for people
is that they're not there
when their loved one goes.
And they do beat
themselves up saying,
I should have been there.
Well, what difference
would it have made?
Because, you know,
the spirit is going
to go when they're going to go.
I do believe that there's a
time to come into the earth,
and a time to leave.
And believe it or
not, most souls
prefer to leave on their own.
It happened to my mom.
My father was coming
up the elevator,
my sister was going down the
elevator in the hospital.
My mother died right in between.
>> NOORY: Oh, jeez.
>> VAN PRAAGH: We tend to come
into this world by ourselves--
through the birth
canal by ourselves.
And we want to go out alone.
>> NOORY: Yep.
>> VAN PRAAGH: The spirit people
are always around greeting us.
No one ever dies alone.
Because your spirit family
is there greeting you,
helping you over to
the other side of life.
Its weird to say the
other side of life.
Helping you through to the
other dimension, if you will.
Again, which is a very
natural, painless experience.
So the best thing we could
do for our loved ones
is say, I love you.
Thank you, very much.
I honor you.
And honor them by
giving them love.
And don't beat
yourself up so much,
because they pick up on that.
They read all of
your mental thoughts.
And they love you
so much, they don't
want you to beat yourself up.
They don't want that.
>> NOORY: That's good.
Make you feel a little better?
A little bit?
>> AUDIENCE: A little bit.
>> VAN PRAAGH: And I love
the memory book you made
for your family.
The little memory book
you made for them,
a scrapbook, or some kind of--
>> AUDIENCE: My sister did.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Your sister did.
And I love that you did that.
They loved it that
you did that, OK.
Pass that on, would you?
>> AUDIENCE: I will, thank you.
>> NOORY: The other side, do we
ever run out of souls that get
recreated?
>> VAN PRAAGH: People
often ask that, George.
That's a good question.
Do we run out of souls?
And I would say, no we
don't run out of souls.
Because we have to remember
that there are many,
many galaxies, solar
systems, planets--
millions and millions
and millions.
So this is just one place.
The Milky Way is one
place of millions.
>> NOORY: Are we all sharing
the souls and everything?
>> VAN PRAAGH: Yes.
And this is only
one form of life.
There are many
different forms of life,
whether it's
vaporous, gas, liquid.
And we can go to different
planets, if you will,
and different star systems.
And experience life
in different ways.
So as a soul, again,
we're not limited
to just this physical body.
We are much, much
more than that.
>> NOORY: It is amazing
what's out there.
And how it was all put together.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Yes.
>> NOORY: That's the genius
of all of this thing, James.
>> VAN PRAAGH: It's amazing.
There's an
intelligence beyond us
that really does
hold it all together.
And I do believe there is a
rhythm and a rhyme to life.
I really, really do.
Even when we-- and I'm just
writing a book about this--
even though things seem,
like when there's a death
and it's devastating, and
shocking things happen,
or horrible things happen on
this earth, believe it or not,
I think if we could see
outside that perspective,
if we could go
outside of that, we
would see that there's
definitely something
in charge, something in order.
And that really, we're just
the puppets, the marionettes,
you know.
But there are the masters
there, working with us.
I do believe that.
>> NOORY: We will be back in
just a moment. "Beyond Belief"
James Van Praagh
our special guest.
[APPLAUSE]
>> NOORY: And welcome
back to "Beyond Belief"
with the medium,
James Van Praagh.
You are one of the
best I've interviewed
on "Coast to Coast."
>> VAN PRAAGH: Thank you.
I love being on your show.
>> NOORY: You generate
so much response.
And the passion that
you have for what you do
and for the people you talk to,
is, obviously, quite evident.
You get recognized now,
too, wherever you go.
What do people want to know
when they come up to you?
>> VAN PRAAGH: They want to know
if their loved ones are alive,
basically.
And that's the overall
question they ask me.
I say, yes, they are.
And that's the
number one question.
And then the lottery
numbers, which I don't do.
>> NOORY: You don't
give them, do you?
>> VAN PRAAGH: No.
>> NOORY: Write them
down for me, would you?
>> VAN PRAAGH: We'll talk later.
>> NOORY: That's right.
You know, there are
some people who do that.
>> VAN PRAAGH: People
ask me, they'll say,
can read lottery numbers.
Or, you know, if I
had this gift you do,
I would get the lottery.
And I say, really, the
work isn't for that.
That's not what I do.
And that's not what I'm
made for, if you will.
And so, I can't do that.
I have very good
intuition, of course.
Because every medium
has very good intuition.
But I believe, George,
like in everything in life,
you have use things
for the right reason
and the motivation, the intent.
>> NOORY: What drives you?
>> VAN PRAAGH: Love.
Love.
Opening up hearts
and minds of people.
And letting them see
who they truly are.
The hardest part
of my job is not
talking to dead
people, that's OK.
The hardest part is when
I work with somebody
and I see their
beautiful gifts, and they
don't see them for themselves.
And that's a shame.
And sometimes they
don't see those gifts
until they pass to the
other side of life,
and they see who
they really are.
So I really want to
let them see themselves
while they're living
on this earth.
>> NOORY: You know, the one
thing I've noticed about life
is that it goes by way too fast.
>> VAN PRAAGH: So quickly.
>> NOORY: I mean when I was 20,
and I was thinking about what
was life going to be
like when you're 40.
I went, naw, that's
too far away.
Don't even think about that.
It has gone by like that.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Quickly, quickly.
>> NOORY: And so you have
to enjoy it while you can.
And then when you jump
over to the other side,
enjoy that, too.
>> VAN PRAAGH: I think
the secret of life--
here I am the great guru
telling the secret of life--
but I think one of the secrets
of life is really taking those
moments and living the best
for each moment you can.
And even when you meet
people, live that moment,
treat them the best
you possibly can.
Find the best in them
and acknowledge that.
And if you can make the
most of the moments,
I think when the end of
those moments of life
go by, you can look back say,
wow, I lived the best I could
with those moments I had.
>> NOORY: When you die, is it
sort of like the dream state,
in that, in your dream, you
actually believe these things
are really happening.
I mean, you feel it, you sense
it, you get scared by it,
you laugh with it.
Is that sort of what
the other side is like?
I mean, is it like a
continuous dream state?
>> VAN PRAAGH: But
it's more real.
So when we leave the body, we go
to the other side, if you will.
We step into another
level of consciousness.
It's just stepping
into the lighter being,
the light part of ourselves.
We are more, we are this
physical body, but then more
some, if you will.
And we tend to look back
at the physical body,
the physical earth.
And everybody goes to their own
funerals and memorial services
and they look back
and see things.
And they feel like,
wow, that body,
that's like, not even who I am.
And if you want to call
it the dream state,
yes, it's very, very real.
10 times, 20 times,
30 times stronger
than the physical experience.
You know, we just see
a little bit of it
here in this physical body.
But when you step
onto the other side,
there's an opening of
awareness, of consciousness.
There's more of a
roundness, like, wow.
It's like, I describe it as
taking your sunglasses off
and be able to see
for the first time.
>> NOORY: I had a call on "Coast
to Coast" one night, James,
from a woman who was an
emergency medical technician,
who happened to come across
an accident when she was not
working.
And no one else was out there.
She gets there and sees this
guy on the side of road.
And his car crashed
and nobody else around.
And so she jumps out
of her car and she's
attending to this person.
She hasn't been able to
reach for her phone yet.
But she looks across
the road and sees
a guy standing
there watching her.
And she yells over to him
and says, please help me.
Call 911.
She goes back to look at the
body, and it was that guy.
>> VAN PRAAGH: His spirit.
>> NOORY: So he had died,
and he was on the other side.
But why was he there
standing there watching?
>> VAN PRAAGH: Oh, because--
>> NOORY: Was he in shock?
>> VAN PRAAGH: No, many times
when you're in an accident like
that, you pop out of the body
and you observe what's going
on.
Someone could be, am I--
is that me down there?
Has this has happened to me?
There is a state of,
maybe, sometimes confusion.
What's going on here?
Because that's me
but yet I'm here.
Just like in the movie "Ghost."
When Patrick Swayze
was killed, he
was standing up,
looking at his body.
And he, for a couple of seconds,
he was kind of in shock.
>> NOORY: He's in shock.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Is
this happening?
So it's a different
awareness, if you will.
So it's really an
adjustment period.
So that was right
after he left the body
and he was looking down.
We all do that.
>> NOORY: And you hear these
stories, time and time again.
Police officers have
called the show.
The one guy said,
George, you're not
going to believe this story.
And I said, well try me.
And he talked about
how he and his partner
had been called to go to a
house of a heart attack victim.
And they get to the door.
They knock on it, an
old man opens it up.
They see a person on his
face dying on the floor.
They roll him over.
Its the guy who opened the door.
How does this happen?
>> VAN PRAAGH: I hear
a lot of those stories.
Well, it's his
spirit, obviously.
I don't know how
he opened the door.
There's pretty good energy.
>> NOORY: That is energy.
>> VAN PRAAGH:
That's a very good,
strong energy that man has.
Still physical energy would
be still remnant there.
But that does
happen all the time.
We leave our bodies, right away.
We pop out of the body.
And there's no pain, again.
So that's very
important to know.
>> NOORY: Tell me about
the reincarnation.
Does everybody reincarnate?
I mean, why can't we just
stay on the other side?
>> VAN PRAAGH: We can.
We have that choice.
And again, there are many,
many places come back to.
The Earth is just one place.
But many of us had
to reincarnate.
And many of us do tend
to come this Earth level.
The Earth is probably one
of the most unevolved places
around-- sorry to say.
We're kind of on the
lower rung of the ladder,
because we still kill people.
We still don't
understand what love is.
You know, we go to war.
That's nothing.
Because there's no death,
so why are you doing that?
So we're really the
young ones, if you will.
The nursery school ones.
And there tend to be people that
come back to-- light workers,
if you will-- to help change
the conscientiousness.
To bring up the awareness and
the knowledge, the wisdom.
But this is a place,
here, where there's
a lot of free choice, free will.
And you really have to rely
on your strength of your soul.
Experiences of your soul.
You've had lifetimes
after lifetimes.
And I often say,
it's like a play.
It's like a play, just
like Shakespeare said.
And we're merely
players upon the stage.
And we come back to learn,
this our school room.
So many times we'll come back
with same family, the same soul
groups.
And one lifetime you
might be the child,
and now you're the mother.
And we switch up
roles all the time,
because we need to learn what
it's like to be the mother,
to be the child, to go
through this situation.
I work a lot with parents
that lose children.
And I say to some of
them, in another lifetime,
you left early and
they had to learn
what it was like to lose you.
Now in this lifetime,
it's turned around.
We've gotta learn both sides
of the coin, if you will.
The wholeness of the experience.
>> NOORY: That's exciting.
You know, I've always
wondered, by the way,
when I would watch
television talk shows, what
are in these cups
that they give people?
>> VAN PRAAGH: There's water.
There is water.
>> NOORY: I'm not
sure mine's water.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Oh a
little vodka, maybe.
>> NOORY: No, I'm kidding.
The other side, the side where
people will reincarnate or not,
some people will come
back with a birthmark that
is identical to the birth
mark of the other person who
is living.
>> VAN PRAAGH: That's right.
>> NOORY: How does that happen?
>> VAN PRAAGH: Or very
much where they'll have
the birthmark and they
find out in a past life,
because of a past life
regression they might have,
that when they become regressed
they realize that , oh,
I was shot there.
And that's where I
shot, was right here.
And in this lifetime, they come
back and they have a mark here.
And that's very, very common.
And it's just really,
it's part of their soul.
It's part of that
experience they had.
I also believe that--
this is my own theory--
that, let's say, you
died in a past life
when you were 32 years
old, by a hanging.
OK?
I have a feeling--
this is just a theory--
that in this time,
lifetime, when you reach 32,
you might have a
throat condition.
Because it's a soul
memory of the experience.
>> NOORY: Good point.
>> VAN PRAAGH: And
I do believe that.
And you know, we
do share lifetimes
with other people we've had had
past lives with, all the time.
And I often say, the
people in your life
right now, that you have the
hardest times with, probably
family, or people you work
with, they are your greatest
teachers.
Because what inside
them are you learning?
Are you learning patience,
forgiveness, what is it?
And I do believe that
we're all connected.
I don't believe-- I think the
two biggest illusions that we
have in this three dimensional
world, number one is death.
And the other is a
sense of separativeness.
That we're separate
from one another.
When in reality, in my work, I
found that we're all connected.
And the biggest illusion
here, in this world,
this physical dimension, is that
we're cut off from each other.
But really, when we pass
into this spiritual world
we realize, oh my gosh,
we're all connected.
We're all one
being, if you will.
>> NOORY: We will be
back in just a moment.
"Beyond Belief," James Van
Praagh our special guest.
[APPLAUSE]
>> NOORY: And welcome back to
"Beyond Belief" with medium,
James Van Praagh with us.
James, wonderful opportunity to
have this discussion with you
about life and death.
>> VAN PRAAGH:
Thank you, George.
Thank you, for
inviting me to be here.
Love it.
>> NOORY: What does it
mean when people say,
that's my soul mate?
Yet in some cases,
they get divorced.
What happened to the soul mate?
>> VAN PRAAGH: Well, they've
obviously come back to learn
with each other.
People have this idea that
when you say soul mate
there's only one.
And I don't necessarily
believe that.
Because as a soul
mate, or soul mates,
I believe what that
means is really
that this soul has had
many, many lifetimes
with that other
soul or other souls.
So you, think of
it this way, you
might think, let's
take a class together.
And you've shared
many, many classes,
or many, many lifetimes,
many lifetime experiences.
So these souls tend to have
an affinity with each other
and becomes soul mates.
You've shared many,
many experiences.
It's like when you meet somebody
for the first time and say,
I know you.
There's a closeness.
There's a familiarity there.
I believe that's a
soul mate, as well.
So I think there are
many, many soul mates.
Yes, there might be one person
that you have an interest,
a loving interest with, or
a really strong connection.
And I think maybe
that's just someone
you've had many,
many, many lifetimes
and you're working out "karma."
Now karma is a love
cause and effect.
What you've given out,
you have experience.
What you give out, you
create all the time.
And you've got to
experience what you create,
good, bad, or indifferent.
I don't believe karma
is a punishment.
I think it's just
a way of learning.
>> NOORY: Before the break, you
were talking about a hanging,
a suicide.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Yes.
>> NOORY: Most religions will
say, if one commits suicide,
they're banned to
hell for all eternity.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Ooh.
>> NOORY: I've
never believed that.
>> VAN PRAAGH: No.
>> NOORY: I think a person
who commits suicide is very
troubled, very depressed.
They sometimes don't
realize that eventually life
is going to be greener
on the other side,
so just wait it out.
>> VAN PRAAGH: That's right.
>> NOORY: What happens
to that individual?
>> VAN PRAAGH: It's
very funny, George,
because the questions
you're asking me are ones
of, I'm literally in the
hotel writing this morning,
and these are things
I'm writing about.
So pretty strange.
Suicide is very interesting.
And very interesting
because people
tend to think that, because
of the religious connotations.
Oh, you're condemned to hell.
Not at all.
Not true.
No soul is ever harmed.
You cannot harm a soul.
There's only love, pure love
from the other side of life.
And they're trying
to help that soul.
I think that it's a
condition of the mind.
So I think that that spirit,
that person on the Earth,
is going through various
life experiences,
life situations, that are very
difficult for them to handle,
these challenges.
And they don't know
how to handle them.
And there's all different
reasons for suicide.
There's always, I would say,
the motivation behind the act,
or the intent behind the act.
So somebody decides
to take their life,
to leave school early--
you know, none of us
should cut school early,
it's not a good thing--
but there might be
somebody who has
a chemical imbalance
in the brain.
>> NOORY: Oh, sure.
>> VAN PRAAGH: And they leave.
They complete suicide.
That's very, very different
than somebody whose Google
stock went down and they
jump out of a window.
So the intent is different.
The motivation is different.
And they'll be
received differently
on the other side of life.
If there's a soul
that's tortured,
if you will, or there's
a chemical imbalance
of some kind, we're
met by those loved ones
in the spirit world
who help to clean up
the conditions of the mind.
Suicide is learning.
It's learning.
Years ago I thought about this.
Before we come back
to this incarnation,
we always set up, if you will,
I call it destiny points.
We map out our lives
before we come back.
And I believe that maybe there
could be one lifetime where
this soul group has
come together and said,
OK, you're going
to complete suicide
so we can all learn
about different lessons
about what that's like
when someone in our family
commits suicide.
Maybe that's a possibility.
Why couldn't it be?
So I just believe it's the
motivation behind the act.
But no soul is ever harmed.
There is no hell.
There's is nothing like that.
>> NOORY: When you are
doing your readings,
have you ever been
confronted by a demon,
some kind of an entity that
is not supposed to be there?
>> VAN PRAAGH: No.
No.
I'm more afraid of the
living than the dead.
I actually am.
>> NOORY: You really are.
Yeah.
>> VAN PRAAGH: And I've worked
in Hollywood for a long time.
I've seen demons living
and I've seen some, mm.
I've seen energy around people.
I've seen negative energy,
I've seen positive energy.
And I see fear-based energy
can be very negative.
And the more someone
lives in fear,
they tend to attract to them
like a magnet, more fear
energy.
And it builds up and
builds up and builds up.
I do believe there are
many, many levels of spirit.
I believe there are
many evolved beings.
And unevolved beings.
So I don't believe in
demons, because that's
kind of a religious connotation.
I do believe there might be
energies or entities that
are very unevolved who are
trying to get around us.
But I believe that
every single person
is made of this pure god light.
And I think that love
really conquers anything.
So the more love we have within
our hearts and in our minds,
we tend to push anything of the
lower levels away, if you will.
So I've never had that.
I've had more people in
the audiences of mine
be more negative
than the spirit.
>> NOORY: When you
walk into a room,
can you tell if somebody's
one of those so-called psychic
vampires?
>> VAN PRAAGH: Yes.
>> NOORY: Those energy zappers?
>> VAN PRAAGH: Immediately.
Immediately, because I
feel energy, I see energy.
And immediately when I walk into
a room, I can tell, like that.
>> NOORY: Do you
run away from them?
>> VAN PRAAGH: I
put up a protection.
>> NOORY: You do?
>> VAN PRAAGH: Oh, always.
Well, you know, I always put
up protection, no matter what.
Before I leave my
house in the morning
I will go through a ritual
in the shower, where I not
only cleanse the physical
body, but also the spirit body.
And I go through a little
meditation practice,
where I bring golden light
all through me and around me.
And anything, of, I
call it psychic debris,
which is holding on to me,
or in my body, or around me,
I just let it go down the drain.
And then I put my
beautiful light around me.
And I'm fine.
And I then program my life.
I say, may God go
before me, today.
And it really does work.
You have to program
the energy around you.
It works for me.
>> NOORY: Have you ever
forgotten to do that,
and you had a bad day?
>> VAN PRAAGH: No.
No, I've never done, no.
>> NOORY: You do it every day.
>> VAN PRAAGH: I do it.
I got into, really,
a habit to do that.
And I think it's
very, very healthy.
>> NOORY: It's like
working out, isn't it?
>> VAN PRAAGH: It's
like working out.
It's like eating breakfast.
If you're going to eat
breakfast, you take a shower,
you do the work.
You have to.
Especially when you're
a medium and you
work with energy all the time.
It's really a
responsibility to do that.
For me, every
medium is different,
but that's my
regiment that I do,
because I want to be the best
I possibly can be with the work
that I do.
>> NOORY: What do those on
the other side say about what
the other side is like?
>> VAN PRAAGH: They say that
we, for this physical level,
can only see just
a small portion.
We see 10% of it.
The other side
is, they say, it's
like you would know of the
beautiful things of this earth,
houses and gardens and waterways
and everything, we have that,
but then more.
The colors are more vivid.
The colors live.
When someone composes music,
you see the notes fly,
and the inspiration with colors.
And really beautiful
designs come
from the mind of that composer.
And it's more real
than this world.
It's life.
It's very natural.
They say, it's so, so natural.
I was with a very famous
medium, physical medium,
where there used to appear
a voice box in the air.
And his name was Leslie Flint.
And he's passed now,
but I was lucky enough
to sit with him three times.
And Oscar Wilde came through
him, and Queen Victoria.
A lot of people
come through him.
And people can go
online and actually see
this, Leslie Flint tapes.
And Oscar Wilde came through.
And it was so funny,
typical Oscar Wilde.
He said, in your world,
it's sinful to be natural.
But in our world it's
natural to be sinful.
And the fact, you
just are who you are.
And it's more beautiful than
we could even imagine here.
It's like our dreams, how
beautiful our dreams could be.
>> NOORY: Well, "What
Dreams May Come," right?
>> VAN PRAAGH: "What
Dreams May Come," yes.
>> NOORY: Which is
always fascinating.
Has anybody ever talked about
the devil on the other side?
>> VAN PRAAGH: No.
No.
I've never had that.
I've never had the devil.
No, they would say
it's mythological.
It's just, it's man-made--
that figure is man-made.
Yeah, I've never had that.
>> NOORY: So is the other
side, just this part of living,
is it energy?
That's really what it is?
>> VAN PRAAGH: Yes.
We are all energy.
In this physical
body, we are energy.
Energy, basically, are
molecules that vibrate and move
at a certain rate of speed.
The physical body vibrates
energy a certain way.
And really, the spirit
world vibrates much faster,
much faster.
So we have around us radio
waves and intelligent waves,
right now with the
computer and these waves.
We don't see the spirit
faces or the images.
But yet we receive them on
our computers and radios.
You know, with your radio
show, and television.
Why don't we see them,
like, flowing in the air?
Because they're there.
It's just that the
vibration they they're on
is a higher level of energy.
It's higher level,
higher frequency.
So it's the same type of thing.
So the spirit world is
much, much more-- mm--
defined with energy.
We see everybody for
who they truly are.
On the physical level, you
can hide your thoughts.
Not in the spirit world.
You are everything.
People see you for exactly
who you are, you know?
And I want to tell you
one thing while I'm here.
It's very, very
important people realize
that when they pass over
to the spirit side of life,
one of the first things that
happens is a life review.
>> NOORY: Right.
Those records.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Those records.
And you look back at your life.
And when you're in the spirit
world, there is no time.
You're outside of time.
So you can tend to
look at your life,
and you're your
own judge and jury.
And you see all the
good things you did.
And the bad things you did.
The tests that you passed.
The tests that you didn't pass.
And you have to try
to forgive yourself
for what you said to somebody,
for how you treated somebody.
And as you know, George,
on this physical earth,
when we do something to
somebody, or say something,
and we don't feel
good about it, we
say, oh, I shouldn't
have said that.
>> NOORY: Why did I do that?
>> VAN PRAAGH:
Why did I do that?
>> NOORY: And we've
all been there.
>> VAN PRAAGH: All been there.
Imagine when you're in a
vibration or dimension where
there is no time,
it's a mental world.
So you relive those
actions, those thoughts,
over and over and over
again in your head.
That can be in heaven, if
you lived a decent life
and you tried to demonstrate
love as much as you could.
Or it could be hell, where you
tried to get over on somebody,
or negative, hurt somebody,
that could be your hell, just
living it over and over again.
So that could be
your heaven or hell.
So what does that tell people?
Well, they've got to
be responsible for how
they treat another human being.
Be responsible now,
in this physical body,
for your thoughts, your
words, and your deeds,
how you treat another person.
Because all of
that is going to be
waiting for you on
this side of life.
>> NOORY: Let's take some
more questions for you, James,
from our audience.
Yes, ma'am.
>> AUDIENCE: Hi.
I have a ton of questions.
But the one that I just thought
of was, when people die,
do they reunite with
other people that died?
>> VAN PRAAGH: Yes.
>> AUDIENCE: And with animals?
And are they all
together over there?
>> VAN PRAAGH: Mm, hm.
Mm, hm.
Our loved ones are all together.
And our animals are together.
It's so interesting,
because the bonds
that we create on this
earth continue on.
They don't just drop
away, they continue on.
So our loved ones
come to greet us,
when it's our time to
go to the spirit world.
They all come to get us.
And there's a
reunion, if you will.
And they help us over to
the other side of life.
So we see our loved ones again.
We see them, and our
animals, as well.
>> NOORY: Are cats more
spiritual than dogs?
>> VAN PRAAGH: I won't
say that, George.
I'm a dog person.
>> NOORY: I have been too.
>> VAN PRAAGH: I think animals
are much more, of course,
much more in tune than we
are, because they're just
themselves.
There's no judgment.
Unfortunately, the human
animal, the human being gets
caught up in judgment.
And judgment blocks.
Judgment blocks who they truly
are, because judgment is fear.
And our natural
state is of love.
That's who we are.
We're are loving god beings.
And when you introduce
fear, that foreign energy,
that judgment in there,
it blocks our truth,
so our perceptions close down.
Yeah.
But animals are very, very open.
They just are.
You kick a dog, what happens?
They come back
and they lick you.
And the cat comes back.
It's just they're wonderful
teachers of unconditional love.
>> NOORY: I love the paw print
stories that people will call
in or talk about.
That they see on their bed.
You know, the little
cat that used to live
is still there, hanging around.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Yeah, I once
did a reading for somebody.
And I still remember
to this day.
And this lady's
dog came through.
And I said, the dog
is a little upset.
And she goes, why?
I said, well, this
dog is telling me
that you just got a new dog.
Yes, I did.
But the new dog is using
the old dog's bowl.
She goes, yes.
I said, well the old
dog does not like that.
>> NOORY: He didn't
like that at all.
Let's take some more from you.
Yes, sir.
>> AUDIENCE: So I saw on the
news that there's a company
selling immortality,
marketing billionaires.
If the human race does
eventually come to a point
where we become immortal, what's
that mean for our general soul
personalities?
>> VAN PRAAGH: Well, number
one, we are immortal.
We are immortal now.
We're immortal.
We are immortal beings.
There's no--
>> NOORY: What are they selling?
>> AUDIENCE: Immortality.
They're targeting billionaires.
They use cloning technology to
like replace organs and stuff
like that, unconsciousness.
>> NOORY: All right, and
cryogenics and to live forever?
>> AUDIENCE: Not cryogenics.
It's real live waking
awareness, there.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Wow, won't that
be interesting when they pass
over?
>> NOORY: I don't think
I would buy one of those.
>> VAN PRAAGH: No, I
wouldn't buy one of those.
I think that's just a gimmick.
I think it's a gimmick.
And I think it's
unfortunately going
toward people's fears of death.
You know, you can't die.
There is no death.
So I don't know what
they're talking about.
There is no death, whatsoever.
So that doesn't
make sense, you see?
>> NOORY: You know, the
great late baseball great,
Ted Williams, who has
passed on, obviously.
>> VAN PRAAGH: And he's
in a machine, isn't he?
>> NOORY: His family
has kept his head--
>> VAN PRAAGH: I heard this.
>> NOORY: --in a
cryogenic chamber,
with the hopes of one
day cloning his body,
and then downloading the memory
from his brain into a computer
and putting it
into the new body.
Wouldn't that be remarkable,
one day, if that happens?
Because, literally,
you would live forever.
Except what do you
do with the soul?
>> VAN PRAAGH: Well,
the soul is not there.
>> NOORY: It's gone.
>> VAN PRAAGH: It's gone.
That's just physical
leftover remnants.
And it's just a waste.
I wish we could really use
technology in other ways,
you know, to clean
up the planet,
and to help people
living a quality life,
instead of stuff like that.
>> NOORY: You wouldn't want
to be cryogenically put away
for a while?
>> VAN PRAAGH: Oh, I
want to die when I die.
I want to get out of here.
When I graduate from
this school room,
I want to graduate and go.
It's hard being here.
>> NOORY: Can I have your suit?
>> VAN PRAAGH: Yes, you can.
Yes, you can, George.
You're welcome to my suit.
>> NOORY: Perfect.
How about one more?
Yes, sir.
>> AUDIENCE: When I was
18, my mother passed away.
And I felt her
presence so strongly
that it convinced me
there was an afterlife.
I can actually remember the
day she was no longer there.
It was about five
years after she died.
And my older brother
died two months ago,
and I haven't felt
his presence at all.
And I wonder why?
>> VAN PRAAGH: Mm, hm.
So when someone
just passes over,
there's usually an adjustment
period, if you will.
Because they have to get used
to their new way of life,
if you will, the new
land that they're in.
>> NOORY: They're busy.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Well, it's
really an adjustment.
Because their mind is
very different now,
they realize that
what they think
is materialized right away.
It's a whole new way of living
and a whole new adjustment,
if you will.
And it takes a lot of energy to
come back to this earth level,
and to project thoughts into
your mind, and feelings.
And so it takes a lot of power.
And when someone just recently
passed over, if you will,
they're gaining back
that energy, that prana,
the energy of life.
They're building back, if
you will, their soul essence.
Yes?
So when they are
completed and to a point
where they're able to
come back, if you will,
come back, lower themselves
to this vibration
and begin to influence
you, and send you thoughts,
send you feelings, have
dreams, memories with them,
they will do that.
Sometimes I find
that people want it
so badly that they block.
>> NOORY: Right.
>> VAN PRAAGH: That they
just block their minds.
>> NOORY: You push too hard.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Because
they want them.
I want them.
If they would just relax,
it'll give the spirit room
to come in.
So try it.
It will happen.
It'll happen.
Because love never dies.
Love continues on.
You know, love, like
life will continue on.
>> NOORY: Just a matter
of time, isn't it.
>> VAN PRAAGH: It's just a
matter of time and relaxing
with it.
Knowing they're
in a better place.
They are in a
better, better place.
This is the hard
place, down here.
This physical earth
is a hard, hard place.
A lot of hard lessons here.
Tough lessons here.
But there is a better place.
>> NOORY: Is it possible,
though, that that spirit,
his brother, will move on and
just not communicate with him?
>> VAN PRAAGH: Well, I
think that his brother is
communicating with him, because
I was talking a little earlier,
and he just doesn't hear him.
That's really more
of what it is,
because I believe the brother
is around, and very strongly.
But he's not hearing him.
>> NOORY: And it's almost
like a radio station?
You got to tune it in to
the right frequency, right?
>> VAN PRAAGH:
You're the expert.
Exactly right, George.
Its tuning in to that frequency.
And if you're not on the right
frequency, you can't hear it.
The connection isn't there.
It's a wavelength.
Exactly right.
So if you're too busy
thinking about things,
and the dial's going
all over the place,
you're not tuning in.
And so that's what happens.
You have to quiet yourself, and
start listening and tuning in.
>> NOORY: And you
have to listen.
And you know what?
We've been listening
to James Van Praagh.
And we're going to come back
with him in just a moment
here, on "Beyond Belief."
So standby.
[APPLAUSE]
>> NOORY: Welcome back
to "Beyond Belief"
with medium James Van Praagh.
And James, you're going to do
sort of a mass reading here
with the audience.
And then afterwards, we'll
bring in some individuals.
And let's see what you do.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Yeah,
whoever I pick up.
And we'll just see what happens.
>> NOORY: All right,
do your thing.
>> VAN PRAAGH: All right.
Very good.
I want to come over here
to this young lady, here.
What is your name?
>> AUDIENCE: Allie.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Allie.
So behind you is a man who
would be a father figure to you.
OK?
And I'm just to ask you to say,
yes and acknowledge or not.
Don't cross your legs, because
I won't talk about that.
I want to tell you that he's
coming to the left side of you.
And he's a big guy,
when he comes in here.
He's big.
He's a big man, to me.
And I want to tell you that, was
there a separation between you
and him before he passed over,
as far either physical location
or were you not able to see him?
>> AUDIENCE: He was in
California and I was
in Colorado.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Well,
that's physical separation.
So you were in Colorado,
he was in California.
That's physical.
That's fine.
Because he's giving me the
awareness that you were not
able to see him, or
there was a, something
you weren't able to
be with each other.
And also, the month of August
is very significant, by the way.
So there's a
connection with August.
I also want to ask you, he's
talking about a brother of his,
and there was a problem,
he's telling me,
in the family with his brother.
And they did not see eye to eye.
Would you understand that?
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: And I know that
after your father passed away,
the brother kind
of came out again.
And there was some
problems there.
And this sounds very,
very interesting,
but he's-- he's apologizing.
He understands the
situation better now.
Can I say it to you that way?
He understands the
situation better now.
And who shared work together
or had a company together?
>> AUDIENCE: My dad and his--
>> VAN PRAAGH: Brother?
>> AUDIENCE: No,
not his borther.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Who?
>> AUDIENCE: He had a partner.
He was a lawyer.
But his brother--
>> VAN PRAAGH: Right.
So he had a-- and the partner is
still alive, is he, right now?
>> AUDIENCE: He may be.
I don't know.
>> VAN PRAAGH:
Yeah, I think he is.
I think there was some
problems with money,
or trying to figure
out what happened
to that money of that company
after your father passed over.
He's telling me
there might have been
problems with getting money
back, or getting something
from that company from that man.
Would you be aware of that?
>> AUDIENCE: No, not really.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Not really.
Would you find out?
Because I know there's
something which
was questionable about that.
Your mother is still
alive here on this earth?
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: OK.
I need for you to
tell her you love her.
>> AUDIENCE: Really?
>> VAN PRAAGH: OK?
Because your
father's telling me,
I don't want time to go by
without you forgiving her.
Would that makes sense
to you, yes or no?
>> AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Thank you.
It's OK.
Because it's very important that
you realize that forgiveness
is very, very strong
and very important.
And we have to forgive others,
because we don't know somebody
until we walk in their shoes.
So your mother tried
the best she could,
but she doesn't
believe in herself,
that's why she
acts out like that.
I know you were very close to
your dad more than your mother,
would that make sense to you?
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: And I want to let
you know that your dad is still
around you, very, very much so.
And he's with you with
music, by the way.
So I know there's certain
music you might hear
and you think of him.
And I want to tell you that.
He's also referring
to a new car,
or is someone getting a new car?
And he's influential
with the new car.
Would understand about that?
>> AUDIENCE: Yeah, he
was really into cars.
>> VAN PRAAGH: OK, because
he's talking about you.
Did just get a new car?
Or was it--
>> AUDIENCE: Getting a new car.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Thank
you, very much.
Because he's talking
about getting the new car.
He's with you
getting this new car.
He's influencing you and
helping you out with this car.
OK?
And I'm going to
leave you with that.
And a lot of love from him, OK.
Bless you.
All right?
I want to come over here and,
what is you name, please?
>> AUDIENCE: Stephanie.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Stephanie.
Now Stephanie, I have a lady
here who would be your mother.
And I know your
mom's passed over.
And I know that there's a
brother, also passed over,
then, with her?
And is there, her mother also
passed over, your grandmother?
And I want to ask
you, did someone
live with your grandmother
for a little bit of time?
Yes or no?
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Thank
you, very much.
Because she's
acknowledging that.
Now who was a smoker?
Did you mom smoke, please?
Because I'm getting,
[INHALE] and I'm
smoking these cigarettes.
And this is what
she's coming in like.
And I like a good
cigarette, she goes.
I like a good cigarette, it
helps me relax, she said.
It helps me relax.
And I also go out to like a
little deck or a little patio
and I just want to sit
there and have a cigarette.
And that's the memory
your mother is giving me.
Would that make sense?
>> AUDIENCE: Yes, it does.
>> VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And I want you to know
she found your brother.
Found your brother, and I want
about the drinking situation.
So I'm not sure if
that's your brother who
had the drinking problem there?
Would that make sense to you?
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: I'm
not judging it.
It's just information
they are giving me
so you'll recognize it, yes?
So I want to tell you that he's
working on his own situations
with the drinking.
I think there was a
divorce in the family also.
So he must have gone
through a divorce,
an upsetment, an
emotional upsetment.
Does that make sense?
And this is a friend of yours?
>> AUDIENCE: Sister.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Sister,
oh your sister.
OK, so you understand the
circ-- so you understand about,
so your brother, and there was a
divorce in the family with him.
And there was emotional
upheaval with him.
And he didn't believe
in himself, at all.
And I want to ask you, who
was involved with drugs?
>> AUDIENCE: I don't
know if it was him.
With his last wife, we honestly
don't know the true story.
>> VAN PRAAGH: OK.
I just got to tell
you that, I've
got to tell you that there's
something with drugs, as well.
I feel like this
man is depressed
before he passes over.
I feel like he's
his own worst enemy.
And I feel like he doesn't
want tot be here anymore, OK?
I've got to tell you that.
Your mother is
taking care of him.
And I can tell you that your
mother is more of a mother,
on the other side
of life to him,
than she was able to
be here on this earth.
Would that makes sense to you?
OK.
Because I get this lady,
exuberant, full of life,
and I feel that she
lost a lot of weight
before she passes over.
I fell like she wasn't herself.
And I'm not sure if this
was a cancerous condition,
but I'm not sure,
but I feel like I'm
being really, really--
my prana, my energy level
has bee drained out of me.
Drained out of me.
And before I passed to
the other side of life,
I cannot even understand
what's going on in this life.
So I would tell you that
your mother, her mind
wasn't herself
before she passes.
And I would say her mind was
not hers, it could have been
several months, could have
been even close to a year.
I feel like my mind is not mine.
Does that make sense?
And I feel like I'm out of it.
I'm out of it.
So it might be early
Alzheimer's, or senility.
It makes sense to you?
OK.
And I want to tell you
that she's dancing.
She's dancing.
And is your dad on the
other side, as well?
OK.
Because he comes to greet
me, and he takes my hand.
He takes my hand.
So he must have been there
before her, because he takes
her hand from the
bed, takes her hand
and he greets her over there.
And he brings her a
brand new dress, OK?
And now I would tell
you that there's
a picture of them where
she's wearing a hat.
And she has gloves,
and there's a dress,
and she's talking about this.
Now I would go to a
wedding picture, also.
And somebody has a
wedding photo out.
Do you have the
wedding photo out?
Or do you know about
this wedding photo?
>> AUDIENCE: No, but
I have their pictures.
>> VAN PRAAGH: You
have the pictures.
You recognize the picture
that she's describing?
And I got to tell you that
she's very happy with him
in the spirit world.
Very, very happy.
And they're arm in arm.
And I got to say, they're
dancing a little bit.
And I just have to say that.
I'm going back to New
York for something.
Now I don't know why, but
I want to go with them
back to New York.
So I don't if they
went there on a visit
and that was a
big deal for them?
But there's something
about going to that area.
Would you recognize that?
>> AUDIENCE: New Jersey.
>> VAN PRAAGH: New Jersey, fine.
I saw the Empire State Building.
>> NOORY: And James, we'll
have time for one more person,
in a second here?
>> VAN PRAAGH: OK, good.
So let me leave you
with that, but they're
around you all the time.
OK.
And I love the garden.
I love the garden you made for
them, because it's a memorial
garden for your brother
and for your mother.
You understand that?
And it has a flag.
OK.
So I'll leave with that.
May I come to you, ma'am?
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: OK.
I'd like to-- can we
do it up here, maybe.
>> NOORY: Yeah, sure.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Would
you mind coming up here,
and we can do it?
OK.
That's great.
What's your name?
>> AUDIENCE: Susie.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Hi,
Susie, nice to meet you.
Come on, have a seat.
Is it OK?
We'll just do it quick.
>> NOORY: Yeah, go ahead.
A few minutes to go here, James.
>> VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Two minutes, OK.
There's a gentleman next
to you, and your husband
had passed, correct?
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: And was he in a
hospital when he passed over,
please?
>> AUDIENCE: No he wasn't.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Was he at home?
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Was he in a bed?
>> VAN PRAAGH: OK, can I just
tell you that I'm seeing a man
lying in a bed, and
you're stroking his hand,
you're stroking his
hand and his hair.
And I want to tell you that
you're whispering to him,
and you're talking
to him, and you're
reading to him at one point.
Do you understand?
And he's like, honey,
don't be afraid.
Don't be afraid.
And can I just say
that you helped him
to the other side of life.
Can I say that to you.
And again, another one,
his body was not his own.
And his body was not his own.
He just keeps on saying that.
And I see his baseball
cap, a baseball
cap you own of his, he said.
Is that right?
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: OK, because
I'm talking about, yes,
he said a baseball cap and
a jacket that you have.
And did he ever like to go
fishing sometimes, or go
sports, do some sports?
>> AUDIENCE: Fishing,
occasionally.
>> VAN PRAAGH:
Fishing, thank you.
And do you have a fishing
rod of his, still?
>> AUDIENCE: I do.
>> VAN PRAAGH: And is it in
the garage that you would have
this?
And it's leaning up against
the corner, he's showing me.
And I got to tell you that
he's very happy about a memory
about you and him going fishing
at one time, or going out,
and it was at a
lake or something.
And he's talking about this.
And did you give
him medications?
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: You know like the
bottles are still sitting here.
And you had a timing where you
had to give him certain pills.
And he knows about that.
He knows about that.
And his eyes, by the
way, were affected.
His eyes get affected.
I can't see things,
at one point.
And he kind of goes into a
coma, or just goes out of it.
And I just got to say,
thank you for helping me.
OK.
And thank you for
the photograph.
You look at the
photograph every day.
He says, you look at my
And I do think you
kiss the photograph.
And um, can I just tell you,
he kisses you good night,
every night when
you go to sleep.
And you must have just gone
on to his side of the bed.
You moved over to his side
of the bed, is that right?
>> AUDIENCE: I did.
>> VAN PRAAGH: You did,
thank you, very much.
Because he said, you
know, she has moved over
to my side of the bed, where I
slept, so we could be closer.
And there's a dog,
by the way, too.
So the dog is at the end of
the bed,and the dog comes up
and licks you.
He comes through that dog.
And I know you know that.
OK, honey?
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH:
Good, God bless you.
>> AUDIENCE: Thank you.
Thank you.
>> VAN PRAAGH: All
right, sweetheart.
>> AUDIENCE: Thank you, so much.
>> VAN PRAAGH:
You're very welcome.
>> NOORY: Gosh, James, you
were going to have me crying
for a moment there.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Well, that's
what it's about, George.
>> NOORY: It gets
emotional, doesn't it?
>> VAN PRAAGH: It's
very emotional.
Of course, it's
very, very emotional.
And if we had more
time, of course,
we could develop
it even further,
and the spirit can
really know how
to send the thought,
how to send the feeling
and blend more with me.
But because we're on TV, it's
a very quick type of thing.
But when I really
have time, they
can really start
blending through me.
And their personalities
come through.
>> NOORY: And when this
is happening, I mean,
you are talking to her about
episodes, and what do you hear?
Are you hearing
voices in your head?
>> VAN PRAAGH: It's almost
like the spirit is downloading
into my mind memories, if you
will, memories, observations.
They were watching this lady
move to the side of the bed.
So he's telling me
I was watching her.
It's like having a conversation.
>> NOORY: And you pick
up these thoughts?
>> VAN PRAAGH: It's like
having a conversation.
>> NOORY: Yeah, OK.
>> VAN PRAAGH: And
it's very, very fast.
>> NOORY: It's a little
like remote viewing.
Remote viewers tell me, don't
think about what you're doing,
just let it come in.
And that's generally
what it's going to be.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Yeah, you have to
just relax and let-- you know,
you're not in control.
You just got to let
your ego step aside
and let spirit come in.
Because if you're
there with the ego,
and you're worried about it,
then spirit can't come through.
There's no room for spirit.
>> NOORY: Let's hear it
for James Van Praagh.
[APPLAUSE]
Well, I hope this edition
of "Beyond Belief"
has helped you understand what's
on the other side just a little
bit so whenever that moment
comes, you won't be scared,
and you'll be prepared.
I'm George Noory
and we'll see you
on our next edition
of "Beyond Belief."
Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
[THEME MUSIC]